Artisanal-Crafts-Marketplace
Artisanal-Crafts-Marketplace is a simple e-commerce web application built using Flask, a Python web framework. This application allows users to browse and purchase various artisanal craft items.

Features
User Registration and Login: Users can create accounts and log in to the application.
Shopping Cart: Users can add items to their shopping cart and proceed to checkout.
Product Listings: Display of artisanal craft items with details like name, price, and category.
Search: Users can search for specific items by name.
Orders: Users can view their order history.
Admin Panel: An admin panel is available for managing products and orders.
Setup
Clone the repository to your local machine.
Install the required dependencies using Pipenv:
Copy code
pipenv install
Activate the virtual environment:
Copy code
pipenv shell
Create a .env file in the project's root directory and add your environment variables, including SECRET_KEY for Flask and any other necessary configurations.
Initialize the SQLite database:
csharp
Copy code
flask db init
flask db migrate -m "Initial migration"
flask db upgrade
Run the application:
arduino
Copy code
flask run
Usage
Visit http://127.0.0.1:5000/ in your web browser to access the application.
Users can register or log in to start shopping.
Admins can access the admin panel by visiting http://127.0.0.1:5000/admin.
Technologies Used
Flask: Python web framework for building the application.
SQLAlchemy: SQL toolkit and Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) library for managing the database.
Flask-Login: For user session management.
Flask-WTF: For handling web forms.
Flask-Bootstrap: For enhancing the frontend design.
SQLite: Lightweight relational database management system.
Stripe: Payment processing integration for handling checkout.
Folder Structure
app: Contains the main application code.
admin: Blueprint for admin-related routes.
static: Static assets like CSS, JavaScript, and images.
templates: HTML templates for rendering pages.
Pipfile and Pipfile.lock: Dependency management files generated by Pipenv.
requirements.txt: A file containing a list of dependencies for the application.
artisan.db: The SQLite database file for storing user and product data.
Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests to help improve this project.


